I've told a lot of stories about
different abandoned places from around
the world but as I got deeper in
researching this one things got a lot
more confusing what I found strange
about this place isn't the town itself
but the person who created it if you
have ever driven to Las Vegas you've
probably noticed a peculiar road sign
it's just outside Baker California and
it points the way to Zizek mineral
springs whatever it was it is not
anymore and here's Jim Brown to tell us
how come the words isaacs was coined by
radio evangelist Curtis house Springer
said he wanted to have the last word in
the English language and it was the name
he gave to a health resort he started
building in 1944 Curtis house bringer
born in 1896 in Alabama his strange
career began in the 1930s when he
started giving lectures all over the
Midwest while making some pretty
outrageous claims he tricked people into
thinking he was the Dean of a closed
university and said that he represented
half a dozen institutions such as the
National Academy and the American
College of doctors and Surgeons all of
which don't exist in 1934 Springer
continued his lies through radio
broadcasting where he would sell his
so-called medicine including his
antediluvian tea was sure not to
basically be a laxative packed up in a
tea bag he would request from his
listeners to send him donations in order
to get his special cures from everything
from hair loss to cancer quickly the
Journal of American Medical Association
published an article exposing these
fraudulent cures in order to warn misled
buyers before long Springer had been
labeled as a notorious fraud and doctor
impersonator by the medical community
and was called the king of quacks but
strangely Springer's popularity was on
the rise as a radio evangelist while he
continued proclaiming wildly false
credentials such as being a former
boxing teacher in the US Army and this
takes us to where things get really
interesting at the creation of Zzyzx in
we have this lovely 12,000 acre estate
here that belongs to God if you want to
come and stay if we have room for you
you'll come and stay for a month if
you'd like to have a package of around
herb tea and there's no charge of the
hall if you get results a contribution
will help if it doesn't you always
nothing just just go and there anything
to be on
and when we arrived the strangeness of
its original tin the air after getting
remarried to obtain this land his new
wife filed a mining claim for twelve
thousand eight hundred acres of the
Mojave Desert in California
Springer decided to name the Lyon Zzyzx
and he labeled himself the last of the
old-time medicine men he recruited
homeless men from the Los Angeles Skid
Row to build these simple concrete
buildings in exchange for letting them
stay there for free at Zzyzx Springer
created imitation hot springs by using a
boiler to heat several pools which he
attempted to pass off as real to his
guests
[Music]
come walk over here sometime places
anything eventually Springer had built a
60 room hotel a church a private
airstrip and basically a small town in
the middle of the desert
[Music]
literally the middle of nowhere there's
nothing
[Music]
but in the simplest word Springer was an
incredibly skilled liar and con artist
claiming to be both a minister and a
doctor when all along he was neither by
the late 1960s he failed to prove to the
government that he was actually mining
as he claimed to be it was taken to
court for squatting federal land and
false advertisement he ended up serving
49 days of a 60-day prison sentence and
was forced to concede what he had spent
the past 30 years of his life building
leaving most of it
abandoned something definitely lives in
there
oh my gosh look at this after his
release from prison spring and his wife
relocated to Las Vegas where he spent
the remainder of his life with no
further documentation of his activities
the upside of the story however is that
part of Zzyzx today has been turned into
the so-called desert Research Center for
students to come study the land and the
area now the most confusing part seems
to be that he was loved by many and
truly seemed to bring joy in some
people's lives but since most of it was
based on lies should he be remembered as
a conman and a criminal was he simply
lost in his own lies see you on Thursday
[Music]